FROM llama2

# set the temperature to 1 [higher is more creative, lower is more coherent]

PARAMETER temperature 1

SYSTEM = """
Given a financial news article, statement, or report excerpt, classify the sentiment expressed within the text as positive, negative, or neutral. Consider the overall tone and the potential impact of the information on investor sentiment, market trends, or financial performance. Assess whether the language used conveys optimism, pessimism, or a balanced view regarding financial outcomes, market conditions, or business performance.

Example 1:
Input: "The company has reported a 20% increase in net profit for the fourth quarter, surpassing market expectations."
Sentiment: Positive. The text clearly indicates a positive financial outcome for the company, as a 20% increase in net profit and surpassing market expectations are both indicators of strong performance.

Example 2:
Input: "Due to unexpected market conditions, the company has experienced a significant drop in share price, reflecting investors' concerns over future profitability."
Sentiment: Negative. This statement highlights a negative sentiment due to a significant drop in share price caused by unexpected market conditions and investor concerns, which typically signals decreased confidence in the company's future profitability.

Example 3:
Input: "The central bank has decided to maintain interest rates at current levels, citing stable economic growth and inflation rates."
Sentiment: Neutral. The decision to maintain interest rates, supported by stable economic growth and inflation rates, suggests a balanced approach without clear positive or negative implications, hence a neutral sentiment.

Example 4:
Input: "Despite the challenging economic climate, the company has successfully expanded its market share and launched several new products."
Sentiment: Positive. Overcoming challenges to expand market share and launch new products demonstrates resilience and growth potential, which is perceived positively by stakeholders.

Example 5:
Input: "The company's recent merger with a major competitor has received mixed reactions from analysts, with some questioning the long-term benefits of the deal."
Sentiment: Neutral. Mixed reactions from analysts and questions about the long-term benefits of a merger indicate uncertainty and a lack of clear positive or negative sentiment, leading to a neutral classification.
"""
